the city of Bergamo has run out of space
to bury its dead
these military trucks are taking the
coffins to nearby cities for burial
the coronavirus has hit the Lombardy
region like no other place in Italy
names and faces of lost loved ones fill
the local papers as the death toll keeps
climbing physicians and officials are
appealing for help we are in full
emergency with this coronavirus Pinilla
our Elf personnel nurses and physicians
are working round the clock countless
hour to fight this incredible situation
we do not know how long this Pandi Mia
will last we are in desperate need of
both nurses and physicians together with
ventilators and dis positives for
protection efforts to build a temporary
hospital in the epicenter are underway
it's hoped that 200 intensive care units
will be ready by the month's end Italy
has also turned to the country where the
virus originated for support medical
teams from China have flown in to lend
their expertise there's a home the
people of our two countries will stay
together and support each other to
jointly overcome the hardship I believe
the top class teams of experts will
learn from each other and make joint
efforts and surely will be able to
subdue the outbreak very soon
cheer up Italy amid speculation that the
lockdown could be extended for several
more weeks
Italians are finding simple ways to lift
their spirits
[Music]
let's bring in journalist Seema Gupta in
Rome Seema
Italy announcing its highest death toll
in a single day after struggling for
weeks with this outbreak does the
country have a strategy for this well
the main strategy is this tag line this
mantra that they are telling everyone
stay at home that is really the only way
they can limit the spread of kovat 19
the situation though particularly in bed
the mores we saw in that report earlier
but in general in the region of Lombardy
it really is on the brink I burn camo in
particular the president of the order of
doctors they're describing the scenario
as apocalyptic the Prime Minister
Giuseppe contain an interview to a local
daily essentially says that they are not
looking at even more stringent measures
in terms of the lockdown a complete
block altogether they are looking at
banning all outdoor activities and
stressing to people stay indoors that's
the only way they can limit the spread
of the disease now the interior ministry
has a review data that in the last eight
days they have had to conduct millions
of controls and they've taken to task
53,000 people for violations of the
lockdown measure so they feel the melt
this their seriousness isn't really
quite hitting home that even if you have
no symptoms you can spread the disease
and that's why the net message is being
shouted out from the mountaintops here
and doctors have been pleading for help
as we saw in that report are they
starting to get the support they need
well the doctors are really calling up
for help but the situation as I
mentioned is dire if you look at
Lombardi in particular from what I
understand the latest figures show that
they've already lost 10 doctors to the
coronavirus
epidemic a pandemic and some more than
2600 doctors have been infected with the
virus and that means it becomes
difficult for them to actually carry out
their work so yes they are turning to
military doctors they are fast-tracking
the graduation of medical students
they're turning to the private sector
and as we saw a 300 intensive care
doctors have arrived from China as well
bringing their expertise from their
experience there to the locals here and
what they're asking for as well is more
bids and more equipment it takes a while
to get everything there but the
authorities the government is large is
looking at producing the mass producing
the respirators here in Italy in order
to meet this need now we're speaking
largely about the north of the country
what about further south where you are
how is the crisis unfolding there well
there is concern now here about access
to essentials there's talk that perhaps
the supermarket hours might be staggered
in order to limit the amount of movement
when people go out to get groceries
so this concern about that you
definitely see more police presence on
the street as they control the movements
of people but on top of that we've seen
infection rates here in the south of the
country increase but fairly contained
particularly here in Rome and we just
have to see what's going to happen in
the next coming days and weeks because
of course we did see that great movement
of thousands of people from the north
who came down south just before the
lockdown measure was put in place so is
that going to cause another wave of
infection that is why they're insisting
so much on social distancing and the big
message to stay at home that way you can
limit the spread even if you feel well
you could be a carrier and they'd say
Magreb - reporting for us in Rome thank
you I hear in Germany the disease a
Disease Control Center says the number
of confirmed cases has climbed by almost
3,000 when the in space of 24 hours that
brings the overall number of infections
to 11,000 this as the German Foreign
Office launches a major airlift
operation to bring home German tourists
stranded abroad due to the pandemic it's
estimated around a hundred thousand
Germans are waiting to be repatriated
many of them were left with little
option but to stay put when Airlines
started grounding flights arriving home
on this plane landing in Berlin tourists
returning from Egypt this was one of the
last scheduled flights bringing
passengers back to Germany for many it
was a short vacation then came corona
and borders everywhere were closed
holidaymakers feared they might be
stranded there was chaos at the airport
some people were not on the list we too
but with some luck we managed to get a
ticket we are relieved we could get a
seat of course about 100,000 Germans are
being brought home from around the world
they're returning to a country in
suspended animation the empty airport is
just the first sign that everyday life
has changed the taxi drivers here know
all about it
Corona destroys everything what is
happening we never saw anything like
this the drivers are fighting amongst
each other fighting about getting a fare
that is not right
yeah monsuno some wait four or five
hours without getting any business if we
taxi drivers don't work we don't turn
anything we didn't mix in Egypt alone
thirty thousand Germans are waiting for
their chance to fly home the Berlin
government is mobilizing 50 million
euros to make these flights possible but
passengers will have to pay a fare
equivalent to an economy class ticket
Germany says it may call in the military
to deal with the impact of the
coronavirus defense minister and a grape
cram Karen Bauer outlined plans for the
potential role of Bundeswehr their
troops they could include repatriating
German nationals from crisis regions and
supporting medical efforts to treat
patients with the virus Australia and
New Zealand have announced they're
closing their borders to all visitors to
try to stem the spread of the corona
virus the two nations are only
allowing citizens residents and close
family members to enter the travel ban
came into force in New Zealand on
Thursday night Australia's ban will
start on Friday
Australia has so far recorded around 600
coronavirus infections while New Zealand
has confirmed confirmed almost 30 total
cases well let's have a look now at some
of the other Korona related developments
around the world
the --use chief brexit negotiator
michele Barnea says he's tested positive
for covert 19 but he tweeted that he's
doing well and is in good spirits
Spain reports a big jump in new
infections and more than 200 deaths
since the day before Spain's total death
toll is now almost 717 in more positive
news China reported no new local cases
of the infection on Wednesday for the
first time since it began recording them
in January and in India Prime Minister
Narendra Modi is addressing the nation
after chairing a high-level meeting on
efforts to control the outbreak for the
latest from India we're joined by our
Delhi correspondent nimisha Joyce while
Nimisha what were the main takeaways
from Prime Minister Modi's address for
their enterprises well Rebecca the prime
minister has a reputation for making
dramatic announcements when he comes to
these national addresses but this one
was not one of them the Prime Minister
mainly focused on encouraging social
distancing asking citizens to stay
indoors after people above sixty
sixty-five to not go out specifically
and only those who are participating in
essential services to step out but this
is entirely voluntary this is just
something he is encouraging people to do
there is no knock down there's no
shutdown this only the measures that
were already in place would squall just
remain shut but no announcements about
markets being shot for example the one
thing the Prime Minister called for is
again a warrant she would complete
lockdown on Sunday he asked people to
not come out of their homes this Sunday
for 14 hours but again this is entirely
voluntary
so nothing specifically shocking from
this announcement he also said that
Nanak group will be constituted to
ensure that people are not too badly
impacted by the corona virus but that's
about all the Prime Minister have to say
to them the number of infections in
India is still comparatively low given
the high population are there fears of a
surge of speculations that the reason
the Indian government has moved so
quickly in its actions for example
cancelling all foreign visas stopping
flights coming in from affected areas
and restricting flights coming in from
other countries even further over the
next week could be because while the
numbers are low India does not have the
capacity perhaps to handle a massive
surge in cases India has amongst the
lowest GDP percentage spending on health
care and there is concern about a
surgeon cases that could happen if the
patterns of other countries ought to be
learned from now of course there's also
criticism of the Indian government while
strict measures have been taken some
health experts are saying India is not
testing enough and if there was more
testing it could be found out that India
is not at stage 2 which is local which
is local transmission other claims but
could well be at stage 3 which is
community transmission public spaces in
India are different than they are in
Europe or China for instance what are
some of the particular challenges facing
India and dealing with this pandemic 50
people per square kilometer and this is
over thrice as much as China's now with
markets not being shut we have seen the
streets continue to bear a pretty
business as usual look even though there
is widespread concern there is vice pair
awareness but many people especially
those from poor socioeconomic
backgrounds feel that they must continue
stepping up to own the level two on a
daily wage and this also makes social
distancing very difficult also in urban
spaces like New Delhi and Mumbai slums
and poor areas are actually densely
packed so once again
can be very difficult this could again
explain why India is moving so fast
right now to create these separations
because once the virus gets into these
spaces it would become extremely
difficult to contain I mean should I
swallow in Delhi thank you Taiwan has
managed to keep its infection rate far
lower than neighboring countries despite
its proximity to China where the virus
originated weeks ago the island was
expected to become the second worst hit
region after China but that didn't
happen so what did Taiwan do right and
how is it coping with the ongoing
pandemic DW Phoebe Kong sent us this
report from Taiwan surgical masks and
goggles have become part of dr. Ho's
uniform since the corona virus outbreak
began he was among the first group of
doctors in Taiwan to treat suspected
patients that was back in January when
the virus first spread from China across
the strait yattawan song Zika and don't
watch ours
Taiwan is experienced in understanding
China we know what is reliable and when
we should be skeptical and because
Taiwan has long been isolated from the
international community we must take
more steps ahead of the crisis and use
her own judgment thoughts this
appreciate cities in China this is where
he ended up sleeping a dormitory next to
the hospital set aside for medical staff
like him for Taiwan vigilance as the
treatment for a disease with no cure
Sanya it was hard to identify
misinformation at first I was scared of
spreading the virus to my family I think
this has to be a collective effort if
each of us takes very strict precautions
ourselves it eases the burden on the
health care system other than medics and
military students and teachers at high
school level and below are now banned
from overseas travel foreigners are
denied entry but containing the virus is
not only about border control
communities have found themselves on the
front line
district officer of the local government
Gary Quan monitors individuals under 14
day home quarantine one of his duties is
to take care of the daily needs such as
delivering fresh food we hope to make it
easier for quarantine people to stay at
home to reduce the risk of contagion if
anyone leaves the apartment will be
alerted by text message and call the
police he or she may be find quarantine
and Taiwan may feel service-based but
it's also stringent individuals are
under surveillance telecom providers are
cooperating to enable the government to
track people via their mobile phones
health officials believe technology
helps contain concern and prevent panic
one example is the face mask rationing
system where people can place their
order and check availability online new
technology helps us to systemize
containment policies in a transparent
way it helps the public build up a sense
of trust in the government because
they're well informed about the
situation America
taiwan's next step is to broaden its
testing regimen
NEADS out your quiet eels anyone with
overseas travel history fever or
respiratory symptoms is eligible for
testing according to research this
spread of the virus can be largely
contained if 60% of infection chains are
broken we're trying our best to achieve
that the island remains concerned about
a potential massive outbreak while
waiting for a vaccine community and
government led containment is the only
way anyone knows how to fight the virus
25 million people worldwide will lose
their jobs because of the corona virus
outbreak that's the warning from the
International Labour Organization people
working in the tourism and service
sector will be among the work most
affected the number of working poor
holding one or more jobs will also
increase significantly the United
Nations agency said it's called for
urgent large-scale measures to protect
workers including paid leave short term
short time allowances and other
subsidies the CEO of German airline
Lufthansa has warned that the corona
virus is a jeopardizing the future of
aviation Carsten Spohr said governments
may need to fork out a lot of money to
save the entire industry from the
fallout of the pandemic only 5% of
Lufthansa scheduled flights are taking
off right now nearly all planes are
grounded due to entry restrictions and
the collapse in demand if the current
situation doesn't improve in the coming
weeks which nobody expects we'll talk to
the government to determine the basic
flight services they think should be
maintained from business point of view
flying doesn't make any sense right now
Lufthansa CEO says Europe's largest
airline is in good financial shape for
now but he did not provide an outlook
for 2020 he said nobody can predict the
entire fallout of the pandemic according
to the consultancy firm Kappa Center for
aviation
Airlines in the world will be bankrupt
by the end of May
unless governments intervene
international industry group a yachtie
says up to 200 billion dollars are
needed to help cushion the blow of the
outbreak the European Central Bank has
announced a 750 billion euro bond buying
program to help stabilize markets
reeling from the fallout of the outbreak
it's just one of many stimulus plans
announced by policymakers across the
developed world
european stocks have shed their gains
from earlier in the day the ECB stimulus
measures not yet enough to bring calm
back to volatile markets the white house
- trying to tame the chaos with enormous
stimulus packages to war and so you know
basically you know what many of the
industries are what we want to do is we
want to make sure they all stay together
so that after the war is won we can
immediately go right back up to where we
were and even beyond that
meanwhile economists say the United
States is headed for a recession as is
Europe much like the world's second
largest economy China China is accounted
for a large share of global economic
growth so the outlook is negative across
the world on top of the self isolation
and social distancing measures that
people around the world are practicing
there are also some simple hygiene
guidelines to follow that can help stop
the corona virus from spreading here's a
reminder wash your hands with soap and
water and do it often keep going for at
least 20 seconds especially after you've
been in a public place alcohol-based
hand sanitizers are a good alternative
if you cough or sneeze cover your mouth
and nose with a tissue or use the inside
of your elbow throw away used tissues
and don't use them twice after blowing
your nose coughing or sneezing wash your
hands with soap and water for at least
20 seconds clean and disinfect
frequently touched surfaces every day
this includes tables door handles light
switches countertops desks phones
keyboards toilets taps and sinks
our science correspondent Derek Williams
is following the latest medical
developments Derek anything to add to
these measures yes when it comes to
social distancing there there is a
number missing the World Health
Organization is recommended that you
remain at least a meter away from anyone
who's coughing or sneezing
um the thing about social distancing
measures is that actually they're one of
the few things that we know will slow
infection rates down there's some pretty
good evidence from from earlier
epidemics and pandemics like the Spanish
flu pandemic and of 1918 that social
distancing really can have an impact on
how fast an infection moves through a
population the measures are difficult to
enforce of course and they also aren't
for free they have huge economic costs
but social distancing measures really
can help limit exposure and what no
medications are vaccines out there at
the moment they're going to be key to
flattening infection curves in Europe
and and around the world now there's
been a question about the safety of
using ibuprofen what's the latest on
that yeah this is one of those stories
that's very quickly grown very difficult
to follow you know that the problem is
is that different authorities have ended
up issuing different recommendations and
they're often really contradictory and
in the end you feel like there's no
really clear answers I mean I started to
follow the story when I when I received
this two minute long what's that voice
message from a colleague last weekend
you might have gotten it too it was it
circulated very quickly on on German
speaking social media platforms and in
it there was this woman claiming to be a
young mother who said that doctors at
Vienna University clinic had discovered
that Coppa 19 cases got worse for
patients taking the anti-inflammatory
ibuprofen
now the clinic responded very fast to
that in just a few hours and announced
that post as fake news but then the
French Health Minister got involved and
basically said the rumor was true that
ibuprofen could indeed be dangerous for
coronavirus patients now a w-h-o
official also then said it might cause
problems but then the European Medicines
Agency
the EMA yesterday said the opposite and
there's no clinical death there's no
clinical evidence whatsoever that
ibuprofen actually affects the course of
copn 19 now the w-h-o has backtracked
and is saying that it's okay after all
and that it's not recommend recommending
against the use of idol program so it's
just lots of chaos a lot of confusion
about whether it's safe or not yeah
quite a lot of conjecture but what is it
about ibuprofen that poses that that
might pose a threat well this is really
kind of at the heart of the problem all
of these cases we're coping 19 patients
reportedly had a poor outcome due to
ibuprofen are anecdotal so there aren't
any clinical trials that are that are
backing up these allegations the fears
appear to have been sparked by a letter
last week to the medical journal the
lancet Dennett some researchers noted
that compounds like ibuprofen affect
certain receptors found on the surfaces
of cells which happen to be the same
receptors that coronavirus is used to
invade the cell so these researchers
hypothesized a connection but we don't
have enough information to either prove
or disprove that hypothesis at this
particular juncture still just this
morning I talked with the doctor about
this and he left no doubt that this was
definitely going to have an effect on on
what people are prescribed whether that
decision is based on science or not most
physicians from now on are probably
going to prefer to err on the side of
caution and prescribe other medicines
for fever like paracetamol which is also
called acetaminophen in the u.s. or
often known by its brand name tylenol
one caution though is is that at the end
an important point that the pain came up
time and time again as we were doing our
as I was looking into this is that a
doctors say that if you take ibuprofen
for a chronic condition you really
shouldn't stop taking it one day to the
next okay if you're talk to your doctor
first science correspondent Derek
Williams follow thanks very much for the
update